Document builtin entities (#9453)
minetest/minetest: doc/builtin_entities.txt

# Builtin Entities
Minetest registers two entities by default: Falling nodes and dropped items.
This document describes how they behave and what you can do with them.

## Falling node (`__builtin:falling_node`)

This entity is created by `minetest.check_for_falling` in place of a node
with the special group `falling_node=1`. Falling nodes can also be created
artificially with `minetest.spawn_falling_node`.

Needs manual initialization when spawned using `/spawnentity`.

Default behaviour:

* Falls down in a straight line (gravity = `movement_gravity` setting)
* Collides with `walkable` node

> * Collides with all physical objects but players

Reviewer: 'Collides with all physical objects except players'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Collides with all physical objects except players
```

# Builtin Entities
Minetest registers two entities by default: Falling nodes and dropped items.
This document describes how they behave and what you can do with them.

## Falling node (`__builtin:falling_node`)

> Is created when a node with the special group `falling_node=1` starts to fall.

Reviewer 3: Strictly spoken nodes can't fall, hence it might be misleading to mention that `a node [..] starts to fall`.

How about:
```
This entity is created by `minetest.check_for_falling` in place of a node
with the special group `falling_node=1`.
```

Falling nodes can also be created artificially with
`minetest.spawn_falling_node`.

Spawning a falling node with `/spawnentity` won't work. 

> Behaviour:

Reviewer 3: `Default behaviour:`

This would also indicate that mods can manipulate this entity. For example: altered horizontal/vertical speed.

* Falls down in a straight line (gravity = `movement_gravity` setting)

> * It collides with physical objects and `walkable` nodes

Reviewer 4: At the time you wrote this, "collides with physical objects" was incorrect, but it now is correct.
This should also mentions that it falls through players.

Reviewer 4: Still relevant:
> This should also mention that it falls through players.

* If the node group `float=1` is set, it also collides with liquid nodes

> * When it hits a solid (=`walkable`) node, it will try to place itself as a

Reviewer 4: Missing description of leveled nodes.

>   node, replacing the node above

Reviewer 3: The following list is not a condition for this statement to apply. They are not related, hence terminating the sentence here clarifies that.
```suggestion
  node, replacing the node above.
```

    * If the destination node is not `buildable_to`, the *destination node*
      drops as an item
    * If the falling node fails to place itself, it drops as an item

### Entity fields

* `set_node(self, node, meta)`: Call this function to set the node type that
  is falling. `node` and `meta` are explained below. The `meta` argument
  is optional.
* `node`: Node table of the node (`name`, `param1`, `param2`) that this
  entity represents. Read-only.
* `meta`: Node metadata of the falling node. Will be used when the falling
  nodes tries to place itself as a node. Read-only.

### Rendering / supported nodes

> Falling nodes try their best to look as close as possible to the original node.

Reviewer 3: `try their best` sounds cute in some way. However, I'd expect different from a documentation file.

```suggestion
Falling nodes have visuals close as possible to the original node.
```

This works for most drawtypes, but there are limitations.
Falling nodes use the `item` entity visual for most nodes.

Supported drawtypes:

* `normal`
* `signlike`
* `torchlike`
* `nodebox`
* `raillike`
* `glasslike`
* `glasslike_framed`
* `glasslike_framed_optional`
* `allfaces`
* `allfaces_optional`
* `firelike`
* `mesh`
* `fencelike`
* `liquid`
* `airlike` (not pointable)

Other drawtypes still kinda work, but they might look weird.

> Supported `paramtype2`s:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Supported `paramtype2` values+:
```

* `wallmounted`
* `facedir`
* `colorwallmounted`
* `colorfacedir`
* `color`

## Dropped item stack (`__builtin:item`)

This is an item stack in a collectable form. It appears when a player drops an

> item, when a node drops as an item and on various other events.

Reviewer 4: Why "various other events"?
The engine only has player drops item, attached nodes and `add_item`.

It can be spawned manually with `minetest.add_item`. Spawning this with

> `/spawnentity` won't work.

Reviewer 3: What do you think about converting this to a list?
```
Common cases that spawn a dropped item:

 * Dropped by player
 * The root node of a `attached_node = 1` is removed
 * `minetest.add_item` is called

Spawning this entity using `/spawnentity` will not work.
```

### Behavior

* Players will collect it by punching
* It will disappear after `item_entity_ttl` seconds after its creation
  (unless item timeout is disabled)
* It will slide on `slippery` nodes
* It is subject to gravity (uses `movement_gravity` setting)

> * It collides with physical objects and `walkable` nodes

Reviewer 4: "collides with physical objects"
wrong

* When it's inside a solid (`walkable=true`) node, it tries to escape to a
  neighboring non-solid (`walkable=false`) node

### Entity fields

> * `set_item(self, item)`: A function. Call this to set the item that this

Reviewer 3: ```
Function to initialize this entity to its representing `item` (type `ItemStack`).
```

  entity represents. `item` is an ItemStack.
* `age`: Age in seconds. When this exceeds `item_entity_ttl`, the entity will

>   die (unless item timeout is disabled)

Reviewer 3: `the entity is removed`

`die` is caused by `set_hp`.
